# Problem
A major problem at many companies is identity governance. Each day, there are thousands of requests to company entitlements like the built-in VPN service, Zoom, codebase, etc. and HR representatives have to sort through the requests and figure out whether to accept or deny the account-entitlement pairing. Currently, there are rule-based and AI solutions to this problem that automatically identify whether an account-entitlement pairing should be accepted, but they have rarely been combined. As a solution, we created a maleable pipeline for [ClearSkye] (https://clearskye.com/) that harnesses a rule-based and machine learning approach in order to provide assistance in access management.

## Rule-based Approach
 For the rule-based approach, we adopted a set of manual rules to determine whether to accept/reject a pairing. Rule 1 gave the feature similarity between the target account and all other accounts that have access to the target entitlement, and used this feature similarity to provide a color indication of whether the account-entitlement pairing was reasonable. On the other hand, Rule 2 returned the proportion of other accounts (with the same value for a certain feature) that shared the target entitlement, and used this proportion to also provide a color indication. The color indications provided are red, yellow, and green. A percent similarity less than 30% resulted in a red indication, a percent similarity between 30% and 70% resulted in a yellow indication, and a percent similarity above 70% resulted in a green indication. Obviously, these thresholds can be easily changed (look at getColor method above). 

 ## Machine Learning Approach
 Three machine learning models are utilized in this code: NLP Wordnet (semantics comparison), Logisitc Regression, and Random Forest. The Wordnet model is the only model that comes pre-trained (aka ready for usage in predictions). Using this model, we're able to determine the similarity between words based on their actual meaning (semantics), which is used in Rule 1 for gauging the similarity of accounts. Logistic Regression and Random Forest are both examples of machine learning "classification" models, which are models actually trained in this code based on the data that is introduced by ClearSkye. These two models perform the same task, but in different ways under the hood, both chiefly concerned with generating a model that, when trained and given information about a new account, will provide a prediction around whether this account should be granted access based on previous accounts that the model has seen. Two different models, rather than only one, are provided in this code so that, when testing their performances on imported ClearSkye data, the model that performs better can be selected for future application. 

  ## Integration
  To get the best of both worlds, we combined the predictions of the rule-based algorithm and ML model and developed a REST API in Python + Django to receive the model’s prediction. We then integrated the API with ClearSkye’s proprietary IGA solution. This effectively cut down the time spent by HR reviewing the account-entitlement pairs by as much as 50% since they could see the machine's prediction as well as justification (for the rules).

